Integrated Keith's (#8)
cs3235-autoauth/report: paper.tex

\section{Fingerprint Auth Plugin}
This section discusses the design and implementation of our device fingerprinting technique on a web application.
 
The aim of our project is to showcase the possibility that a unique device fingerprint could potentially replace passwords in an authentication system. We built a web application where users can sign up and login to an account simply using an email. During registration, our web application will generate a unique device fingerprint that pairs with the email provided. Once registered, users can proceed to login using their registered email. During log-in, the application will also generate a log-in device fingerprint and the user will be authenticated based on the existence of email and the similarity between the log-in fingerprint and the registered fingerprint if the email provided exists. This single-field input authentication provides simplicity and ease for users, eliminating the need to remember passwords without compromising security.

> The authentication algorithm introduces a degree of complexity whereby the similarity of two device fingerprints is evaluated based on a threshold level. This threshold level is customizable during registration (Figure \ref{fig:level}) and explained in the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The authentication algorithm introduces a degree of complexity whereby the similarity of two device fingerprints is evaluated based on a threshold level. This threshold level is customizable during registration and the different levels are explained in Figure \ref{fig:level}.
```

\subsection{Demo Web Application}
The Javascript plugin above for generating device fingerprint was fitted into our streamlined web application to exemplify the fingerprint-based authentication.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{assets/fig3-demo-flow.png}
    \caption{Demo Flow of Web Application}
    \label{fig:demo-flow}
\end{figure}

As shown in Figure \ref{fig:demo-flow}, our web application consists of three components - User Interface (UI), Server and a Database.

The front-end user interface that displays the registration and login pages was built with Angular 6.0, designed with Material Design Bootstrap for a consistent and fluent design. Background animation was added to create an aesthetic appeal that blends into the “security” theme. The UI is responsible for input validations, sending and receiving data to-and-from the backend (NodeJS) server. It triggers the Javascript function of our fingerprint plugin to generate a device fingerprint and thereby package both user input email and device fingerprint into a JSON object, passing it to the NodeJS server.

> The NodeJS server utilizes Express 4.0 for communication of data between front-end and database. The specific set of APIs are exposed to the UI such that only the responses and requests made by the UI would be routed for operations. For storing and retrieving of data from the database, it uses Flex.Query Processor Library to execute SQL statements to a MySQL instance. The server also stores and execute the algorithm logic for registration and login authentication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NodeJS server utilizes Express 4.0 for communication of data between front-end and database. The specific set of APIs are exposed to the UI such that only the responses and requests made by the UI would be routed for operations. For storing and retrieving of data from the database, it uses Flex.Query Processor Library to execute SQL statements to a MySQL instance. The server also stores and executes the algorithm logic for registration and login authentication. 
```

            \item UI generates device fingerprint JSON object containing 27 device components
            \item UI sends device fingerprint and email of the registering user to backend server  
            \item UI displays the table of 27-component device fingerprint to user (Figure \ref{fig:fingerprint-comp})
            \item Backend stores device fingerprint and email into MySQL database
        \end{enumerate}

    \item \textbf{Login Flow:}
        \begin{enumerate}
            \item User logs in with email  
            \item UI generates device fingerprint JSON object containing 27 device components
            \item UI sends device fingerprint and email to backend server
            \item Backend checks whether there exists any record for email and runs an algorithm to match each of the 27 device fingerprint components based on the security level chosen by the user
            \item  UI redirects to a login success page if email and device fingerprint were successfully matched. Otherwise, UI redirects to a login failure page if either email or device fingerprint failed to match
        \end{enumerate}
\end{itemize}

\begin{figure}[h]
    \centering

>     \includegraphics[width=0.5\textwidth]{assets/fig1-ui-threshold-level.png}

Reviewer: Maybe we could include {assets/fig4-ui-authentication.png} too
